- When your resume grabs the attention of a recruiter,
they'll connect with you to begin the interview process.
At this point, it's normal to feel a little nervous
and excited all at the same time.
But if you prepare well, you can go into an interview
with the confidence and energy to land the position.
The key is to understand the company's process
by learning what to expect at each stage
and then preparing yourself for the situation.
Each company's process will be unique,
so the number of discussions you'll have, and their focus,
is going to be a little different each time.
But in general,
there's some common situations to be prepared for.
The first interview
will likely be a prescreening interview
conducted by a recruiter or the hiring manager.
Typically, these conversations
are meant to determine if there's a potential match
between you, the company, and the position
that's worth exploring further.
During the prescreen,
the conversation normally stays at a high level,
and you should expect some general questions
that focus on your background and prior work experience.
If the hiring manager conducts the pre-screen,
this conversation may include some technical questions
that assess your knowledge of different concepts.
If you advance to the later stages of the interview process,
there are several types of interviews
that you might encounter.
A common one is a high-level technical interview.
In these interviews,
you can expect to be asked a series of questions
about the technologies important to the position.
It's not a coding assessment,
but you'll need to reason about different concepts
and describe how you solve technical problems with them
in the past.
Sometimes the technical interview
will mix in some behavioral questions
that assess your personality traits or fit for the company.
You might also be asked these types of questions
in a separate interview dedicated to the topic.
One of the most challenging types of interviews
is the problem-based assessment.
In these interviews,
you're given either a coding problem or a design problem,
and then asked to solve it on the spot, in sort of
a paired programming session with the interviewers.
To solve these types of problems,
you'll need to write actual source code, pseudo code,
or do some whiteboarding.
When the interview is conducted remotely,
this is commonly done via screen share
or an online assessment tool.
The best way to understand
the types of interviews you should expect
is to ask the hiring manager or the recruiter
to explain the steps in their process.
Some companies may even
outline their interview process on their website
and provide details about the topics they'll cover.
Once you have this information,
you'll want to start your preparation.
So let's move on to our next lesson
to walk through some strategies for each type of interview.